Structured data

1.- How Google use Structured Data
2.- How we benefit from implementing Structured Data
3.- Different ways we can implement,
4.- Schema.org
5.- JSON-LD
6.- Google's own guidelines for structured data
7.- Adding markup to the page

8.- Tag manager, tags, triggers variables
9.- Inserting json-ld into a tag and setting the trigger
Testing the tag works
Json-ld specific exmaples
using plugin to implement structured data

Google search console, search appearance tools, finding and fixing errors and the data hightlighter


who benefits from using structured data:
takes time and effort to create, if organic search traffic is important to you then structure data is important. Can have an important impact with the Rich Snippets.
Helps the listing to stand up in the search pages. Eyes are drawn to the ones with star ratings.
If we have multiplel articles related to key terms and we want them to stand out as a carousel.
Rich snippets can increase the CTR Cick through rate as they draw the aye away from normal listings.


Options to add strcutured data
we need to know what info we need to include to tell google more information about, the information we need to include comes from what's called a taxonomy.
A taxonomy defines the specific vocabulary we need to use. The other thing we need is how we include that vocabulary and that's decided by the syntax or
the programminmg code we use to define structured data. SO WE NEED A TAXONOMY AND WE NEED A SYNTAX.

The bad news is that thre are different taxonomies we can use and also different syntaxes we can use, for taxonomies we have schema.org and microformats.org, for syntaxes we have micro data, micro formats and json LD.

Schema.org (taxonomy) jsonld using the code. Schema.org is being used because the major search engines Google, Yahoo and Yandex got together in 2011 to create a standarized list of attributes and entities which they all agreed to support and became known as SCHEMA.ORG. This is the vocabulary or the taxonomy that Google wants you to use.


JSON-LD JavaScript Object Notation for Linked Data, it's a JavaScript code we can insert into the head section of the web page. That means that jsonld is separate completely from the HTML code of the page JSONLD does not require HTML to exist.
Essentially we duplicate a bit of information where we define the sections of the page for the search engine.

As the benefit of using JSON-LD

1.- is not bound to the content on the web page, it does not need to be embedded in amongst the HTML tags of the page, like other sytnaxes. We don't need to add extra HTML code as with other previous formats

2.- We don't need to have access to the backend of the site to edit and implement JSONLD if we set it up using GOOGLE TAG MANAGER.

IN SUMMARY

1.- We decide what type of web it is (review, book, recipe )
2.- Fint that TYPE over at Schema.org which then tell us the information we can add and need to include
3.= Using JSON-LD we create the code that defines the strcutured data
4.- Insert the code in our web page

SCHEMA.ORG

Founded by Google, Microsoft, Yahoo and Yandex, Schema.org vocabularies are developed by an open community process, using the public-schemaorg@w3.org mailing list and through GitHub.


Schema.org is a collection of different things and types, types defines what is it that we want to markup so if we markup a web page (is it a news article it's  a product ? is a local business ? is it a person ? ). And each will have its properties.

Tool:
   Structure data markup helper. provides the main of types we can markup to create the JSON-LD.

------
JSON-LD

code used to pass the meta data to the search engines, it is javascript and uses name value pairs. JSON uses some reserved names which we can easily spot because they start with @,
@context and @type are the two we will see over and over when working with structured data.

@context specify the format of the meta data, we are telling the search engines that the following JSON-LD uses the metadata structure from schema.org.

@type the part of the schema we want to define. eg.an article a recipe a restaurante an offer a price a rating etc.

Google guidelines

https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/sd-policies
guidelines to make sure the structured data is use correctly and not used for spam.


https://schema.org/
https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/sd-policies
https://www.google.com/webmasters/markup-helper/?hl=en
https://search.google.com/structured-data/testing-tool/
https://technicalseo.com/seo-tools/schema-markup-generator/
https://www.schemaapp.com/tools/jsonld-schema-generator/




Anchor text

Backlinks (contextual links / sideway links )

  backlinks different sources  ( blog, company site, directory guest post, comment social media, wiki, social bookmark, press release, there's a Ton )

Keywords
  keywords research; is a critical component for search engine optimization because when used correctly it provides a road map for both the desing and execution of bujilding websites and developing content. Keywords are usually broken up and grouped based on the numer of words within the query phrases

  Keywords Everywhere (plugin)

  keyword planner

  Keywords Research, Monthly search volumes ( keyword planner )
  LSI (Latent Symantic Index),  (LSI Graph) helps us to find more keywords in a more proper manner; so we can have several keywords to be run
      primary and secondary (added to have broader focus)
  Keywords,

   Keywords stuffing; refers to the practice of loading a webpage with keywords or numbers in an attempt to manipulate a site's ranking in google search results (penalty by google)

   Keyword difficulty is a handy metric which helps you understand how hard it will be to rank for any search query, describe how diff is to run that sepcific keyword
      (SEOQuake)  which will change the google results which in clude a bottom bar on every page

SERP
  Search engine result page.

Organic seo vs Local seo

Different Algorithm  for each Maps Ranking, 3 pack, Google my business (GMB), Citations via NAP (Name, Address Phone)
  Local seo depends on (google my business and all directories sites), It's important to keeep your local seo updated (YELLOW PAGES,)

Monthly search volumes (using keyword planner)

Meta tags and attributes (title , description , No-index, H1 H2 H3, image optimization, canonical tag)

URL Slug (is the exact address of a specific page or post on your site)
  sitename.com/buy-drones
  https://oscarlagatta.com/ng

Brand Mention

Algorithm Updates
  (https://moz.com/google-algorithm-change)


Google search parameters
  insite:

  inurl:

  allintitle:

  site:nike.com + running

  SEO tools
  ---------

   Rank Trackers, link submitters, keyword researchers,

   AHrefs, Makestic, Moz, SEcockpit, SERPworx,

   KeywordResearcherPro,

   WP Plugin - SEO Yoast, Scrapebox,

   Search Console (WMT)

   Google Analytics, Google Trends

  SEO Tools Metrics
    TF - CF = Majestic (citation flow)
    DR - UR = AHrefs
    PA - DA = Moz (page authority domain authority ) - trust they've built  (CHECKDAPA tool)
    Page Rank - google

CTR

is a performance metric expressed in percentages that measures the amount of times an ad or email is clicked versus the amount of times it's been viewed. It is most commonly used to measure the effectivenes of paid search, display and email marketing campaigns and can indicate the performance of ad

Page Speed (google will show only with good page speed )

.htaccess (hypertext access and is a configuration file used by Apached-based web servers that controls the directory that it "lives" in-- as well as all the subdirectories underneath that directory. Also helps to create Custom Error Pages for better SEO)

ROBOTS FILE, the robots exclusion standard, als known as the robots exclusion protocol or simply robots.txt, is a standard used by websdites to communicate with web crawlers and other web robots.

sitemap

Sitemap.xml is an XML file that is full of your individual webpages' URLs, it's like an acrhive of every webpage in your website. This file should be easily discoverable in the site in order for search engine crawlers to stumble upon it.

schema markup
  /rich snippets
  /knowledge graph

PBN (Private blog networks)
  private blog networks are the go-to link building tactic SEOs.


Technical SEO
  Refers to the process of optimizing the website for the crawling and indexing phase.

PPC (PAY PER CLICK), CPC (COST PER CLICK)



search engine guidelines
  (google) https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/7451184?hl=en
  (yahoo) https://help.yahoo.com/kb/SLN2248.html?guccounter=1
  (bing) https://help.yahoo.com/kb/SLN2248.html?guccounter=1


Types of SEO
  on-page seo (is the practice of optimizing individual web pages in order ro rank highter and earn more relevant traffic in search engines)
  off-page seo (refers to techniques that can be used to imporove the position of the web site in the search engine results, many  people associate off-page SEO with link building but it is not only that. In general, off page SEO has to do with promotions methods - beyond website desing - for the purpose of ranking a website higher in the serach result)

  organic search vs paid search (ADWOrDS)

  white hat vs black hat seo


